# **2021-10-05 Meeting**

## Attendance (please add yourself):

* Phil Estes (AWS)
* Matt Rutkowski, he/him, IBM, CT
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* CRob (Intel)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Kay Williams (Microsoft)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat)
* Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)
* John Naulty (Coinbase)
* Ryan Haning (Microsoft)
* Jeffrey Borek (IBM)
* Dan Lorenc (person of intrigue)
* Brian Behlendorf (Linux Foundation)
* Rao Lakkakula (JPMC)
* Sergio R. ()

## Agenda:

* The Great Multi-factor Distribution Project [David A. Wheeler]
    * Google & maybe others are making free Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) tokens available, want to distribute them & instructions for using them to OSS developers
    * Draft plan (in progress): [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Hhg4KcLCzEdd9ZcbdEviN0TIUTLyWDsIdF6B_hY3Xv0/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Hhg4KcLCzEdd9ZcbdEviN0TIUTLyWDsIdF6B_hY3Xv0/edit)
    * Should this be part of Best Practices WG, digital identity, critical projects, or its own initiative (allowed by the charter)? David proposes starting in the best practices WG (since a lot of the work is about defining best practices), but all options make sense.
    * Want TAC to weigh in
    * Note: A repo exists and we’ve broken out some of the discretized tasks into GitHub issues: [https://github.com/ossf/great-mfa-project/issues](https://github.com/ossf/great-mfa-project/issues) 
    * The current tokens we have to give away don’t have buttons to activate, which is weaker than ones that have activation buttons. It’s fine if people want to use other MFA tokens. The goal is to help/encourage people to move off password-only approaches, this is simply one process to help people do that.
    * TAC approved, for now will go into Best Practices WG (we can move it later).
* New WG - ‘Supply Chain Integrity Management’ [Kay]
    * Hasn’t yet discussed with SLSA team.
    * Perhaps rename “digital identity WG” to “Supply Chain integrity WG” (its meeting next week will probably be cancelled because of KubeCon, but they can discuss afterwards)
    * SCIM is intended for any type of metadata
* Follow up on Alpha-Omega Vote
    * Decision for TAC to set conditional criteria for as Phase 0 for approval/recommendation of the Alpha-Omega Project to the GB 
    * [https://github.com/ossf/criticality_score](https://github.com/ossf/criticality_score) 
    * [Phase 0 as specified in Alpha-Omega proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1u7Ps18dzu9M-HF7ZHTK6VB5jLaVJvnw6uq3o7qw5yGE/edit#heading=h.rcpqudsmdsam):

### Timeline & Estimated Resources

#### Preparation (October 2021 - February 2022)

* Create a list of the top 100 most-critical projects using a [simple survey](https://forms.gle/pVAi4RYYk9xjmYERA) sent to OpenSSF members and the general public.
* Approach a few (3-5) representative projects to get their opinion on whether the goals of the project align with theirs; Use this information to tweak the engagement plan.
* Establish essential criteria, concrete activities, and a basic template for an Alpha engagement.
* Establish criteria for selecting one or more service providers to conduct Alpha engagements on the selected projects, and solicit proposals from potential service providers.
* Choose one or more service providers to execute Alpha engagements.

#### Preparation (October 2021 - April 2022)

* Project Management (1 HC)
    * Create a playbook for reporting vulnerabilities to OSS projects, depending on specifics, this may mean resourcing DevRel.
    * Maintain the project backlog and serve as scrum master.
    * Work with the LFX team to understand requirements to leverage/extend the LFX platform (LFX Security in particular) to provide the triage experience.
    * Explore using VINCE and/or service providers for handling private disclosure to maintainers.
    * Establish a playbook for leaving OSS projects better off after our engagement ends; for example, providing a short list of best practices and links to information from the Best Practices working group, security training, etc.
* Security Engineering/Architecture
    * Create and validate a system design that meets security requirements, based on the disclosure risks described above.
    * Validate implementation, perform threat modeling.
    * [LFX Team] Implement changes to accommodate triage portal, automated tooling as a data source, and scaling to all projects (750k+ projects in first year).
* Software Engineering (4 HC)
    * Design and build the automated tooling orchestration layer (cloud infrastructure, scaling, data collection, automated triage).
    * Execute the tooling on 500 projects from various ecosystems.
    * Gather feedback and tune system to reduce false positives.