# **2021-11-30 Meeting**

# Attendance (please add yourself):

* Ryan Haning (Microsoft)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft)
* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard)
* Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)
* Phil Estes (AWS)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore)
* CRob (Intel)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM), he/him, CST
* Jeffrey Borek (IBM)
* Jennifer Fernick (NCC Group)
* Joshua Gay (IEEE, he/him)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Justin Hutchings (GitHub)
* Dmitry Raidman (Cybeats)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Brian Behlendorf (Linux Foundation)

## Agenda:

* Election Process

<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
Open Question
   </td>
   <td>Proposal/ Description
   </td>
   <td>Current Support
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/65">TAC Election: Seats & Candidates</a>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Complete refresh of the TAC, all 7 seats will be up for change.

<li>Anyone may self nominate by sending an email to the TAC mailing list.

<li>Candidates should submit a 'candidate statement' when self nominating.
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>5
<p>
(Approved)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/66">TAC Election: Electorate</a>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Those wishing to vote in the election will request a ballot by submitting a (to be created) Google Form.

<li>Election Officials will determine eligibility based upon participation/contributions. Note that a contribution does not specifically imply only code contributions.

<li>LFX Insights can generate list automatically, those not identified may request ballot.
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>4
<p>
(Approved)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/67">TAC Election: Process & Tools</a>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>Utilize OpaVote with "meek stv" ranked-choice voting

<li>Election Officials will announce the timeline for nominations and election via the TAC mailing list and Slack channel

<li>At the conclusion of the nomination period, the Election Officials will publish the complete list of candidates. Publishing options include, email, doc, and/or TAC repo.

<li>Election Officials will validate the eligibility of voters before the election.
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>4
<p>
(Approve)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/69">TAC Election: Officials</a>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>number of election officials: 3

<li>Chosen by the TAC (often not members of the TAC, since they can’t be candidates)

<li>eligibility: each election official must be eligible to vote in the election

<li>maximal representation: no two officials may be employed by the same entity (this includes subsidiaries and affiliates, to ensure the perception of open and fair elections)

<li>Election Official must not also be a candidate. May be a current/past TAC member, GB member, WG lead, etc.

<li>Primary roles: Oversee vote process implemented by LF staff, review nuanced questions such as eligibility questions.
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>3?
<p>
(Approved)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/68">TAC Election: Should we increase the size of the TAC?</a>
   </td>
   <td>Keep at 7 for now. Option to increase if necessary in the future
   </td>
   <td>3?
<p>
(Approved)
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td><a href="https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/52">TAC Election Process: Member makeup</a>
   </td>
   <td>
<ul>

<li>4 “community” seats from technical initiative contributions

<li>3 seats from the Governing Board (whether or not the GB wants to continue to do this will be a discussion in the GB meeting later this week; if they drop it, then all 7 become community seats)

<li>If GB decides not appoint TAC seats, all 7 become community elected seats

<li>Need to investigate what GB approved, potential typo. [Ryan]
</li>
</ul>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>Nomination Date
   </td>
   <td>Election officials self-nominate by: Dec 10?
<p>
Election officials selected on: Next TAC meeting, Dec 14
<p>
Announce self-nominate: Dec 14
<p>
Candidates self-nominate by: Jan 7
<p>
Election officials validate candidate nominations: Jan 14
<p>
Candidates announced on: Jan 14
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>TAC Election Date
   </td>
   <td>January 17-31. 2022
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>