# **2022-11-01 Meeting**
**Attendance (please add yourself):



* Michael Scovetta (Microsoft, Alpha-Omega)
* CRob (Intel, TAC)
* Bob Callaway (Google, TAC Chair)
* Sam Ramji (LF/OpenSSF)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat, TAC)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)
* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, TAC) (have to leave halfway)
* Justin Hutchings (GitHub)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft, TAC vice chair)
* Brian Behlendorf (OpenSSF, LF)
* Aaron Wislang (Microsoft)
* Ashley Pierce (Shopify)
* Brian Fox (Sonatype, GB)
* Jay White (Microsoft)
* Rosaria Carr (Indeed)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, TAC)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, TAC)
* Dan Appelquist (Snyk)
* David Edelsohn (IBM, GTI)
* Amir Montazery (OSTIF)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)
* Jennifer Bly (OpenSSF)
* Jeff Mendoza (Google)
* Betty Li (Shopify)
* Jenny Shen (Shopify)
* Andres Vega (ControlPlane, CNCF TAG-Security)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Munawar Hafiz (OpenRefactory)
* Arnaud Le Hors (IBM)

Regrets:



* 

Agenda:



* (_10 min max_): Update from **Securing Critical Projects WG [[slide](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/11NWS703qmmMo-UhgtA0emvqu8F-VqP1QVa9yXdVTbxo/edit?usp=sharing)] **(Jeff Mendoza)
    * Progress on creating a process to identify and capture set of Critical Projects
    * Automation built in to process: Currently working on the automation piece
    * OSTIF reviewed current list, identified ~50 audit candidates from “about-100” list
    * Criticality score algo changes: [https://github.com/ossf/criticality_score/blob/main/docs/design/milestone_1.md](https://github.com/ossf/criticality_score/blob/main/docs/design/milestone_1.md) 
    * Jacques leading the renewed outreach work to engage with other foundations & communities.
* (_20 min max_): Update from **AO** [[slide deck](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1S0AofJHd7oLPNzfe55p23uzOHL0eiF9EKhU-PJlJRnM/edit?usp=sharing)] (Michael Scovetta)
    * Exciting updates to come with annual report
    * Process improvements 
    * Want to make security a part of the “cultural norm” in the receiving organizations - our goal is to help make that change
    * How long will engagements take? We don’t know yet, probably >1 year but not 5. We’re open-minded, the emphasis is to create [the lasting change]. Let’s experiment & see what works.
* (20 min max): [Proposal for Shared Repository Helpdesk](https://lists.openssf.org/g/openssf-tac/topic/94560709) (Ashley Ellis Pierce)
    * [Proposal for Shared Repository Helpdesk](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Od9kqd4JIAW1h0vvvkD8NFclxsR8yudOdsZEMT7lBUc/edit?usp=sharing)
* (10 min max): Technical Vision & Prep for Nov 11th Meeting (Sam Ramji)
    * [TAC Prep for Strategy Day 11/11/22](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Y7MymeTKhZQimgbkAOw_aFf6VeGv6pvzT0ddVCOB1to/edit?usp=sharing)
    * Call for Pre-Reads - please email [sramji@linuxfoundation.org](mailto:sramji@linuxfoundation.org) or [bcallaway@google.com](mailto:bcallaway@google.com) 
* Next Town Hall (Jennifer Bly)


