# **2022-03-22 Meeting**

## Attendance (please add yourself):

* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Jenn Bonner (OpenSSF, Linux Foundation)
* VM (Vicky) Brasseur, she/her (Wipro)
* CRob (Intel, **TAC**)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, **TAC**)
* Matt Rutkwoski (IBM)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* Stephen Chin (JFrog)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)
* Melba Lopez (IBM)
* Justin Hutchings (GitHub)
* Bob Callaway (Google, **TAC** Chair)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft, **TAC** Vice Chair, OSI Board)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Sarah Novotny (Microsoft)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat, **TAC**)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC**)
* Brian Behlendorf (Linux Foundation / OpenSSF)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)
* Jeffrey Borek (IBM)
* Sudhindra Rao (JFrog)

Apologies:

* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, **TAC**)

## Agenda

* [joshbressers] WG charters
    * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/78#issuecomment-1069383570](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/78#issuecomment-1069383570)
    * Many of the charters are not filled out
    * David Wheeler: Maybe update the charter template (no one has a TSC), then have WGs fill in the details
    * Aeva: Let’s focus on this, not just wait for it to happen as GitHub issues. Is there a good one to start with?
    * CRob: I’ll work to identify one.
    * Jory will work out “where we stand” (list of WGs, Charters, Leads) - to build table to be included in this document for review/closure within TAC meetings
    * Series of actions:
        * Identify template charter (it’s missing from ossf/template)
        * Copy into ossf/template
        * Ensure ossf/tac#working-groups is an up-to-date list
        * Send example to WG leads, asking to update their charters
* [jorydotcom] Meeting Administrativia - “papercuts” around collaborative document sharing and editing + best practice recommendation to WG chairs
    * Try to eliminate (unnecessary) differences. Most were on groups.io - but now some are using Google Groups to control document access, but that’s a papercut for newcomers.
    * Want to convert all notes docs to something anyone can link to (e.g., to Markdown on GitHub)
    * Jory: I’d like to use our notes in Google docs, don’t limit it to a Google group. Instead, put them on Google drive so anyone can access, use the folders. We don’t want to lose access to info because someone left a company. Update calendar invites to new notes document, convert Google docs into Markdown on GitHub. 
    * Note: We need an “onboarding” document for a new WG or top-level project
        * David W: I suggest briefly mentioning there WHY certain decisions are made, e.g., “this avoids losing data when people leave companies” or “this makes onboarding easier”
        * Have a standard footer?
    * Aeva: Want to avoid making private groups (anti-pattern)
    * Jory will be POC for making this help
    * [Sarah] we need to be consistent in documenting when projects are approved to join.
    * David: historically, WG’s have just accepted projects often without TAC oversight or review. 
* [aeva] documenting a community entrypoint, term & definitions, and common norms
    * using ossf/community or ossf/foundation?
    * do we need a subgroup?
    * Sigstore was voted to accept by the TAC
    * What if a WG wants to start a new project, and/or accept an existing project in? Should the TAC weigh in?
        * At least for preexisting projects, TAC should review, and LF legal may want to revie as well, particularly if the donation is coming from a company and/or has any IP attached
    * Need to formalize a donation process. Need document a fair process.
    * Let’s not re-litigate old decisions. If it’s in & there are no issues, it’s in.
    * Make sure we don’t have any legal problems. If trademark isn’t handed to LF, we need to make sure that happens & need to revisit - help them complete the work.
    * Pyrsia in particular has been working, but hasn’t been voted into the OpenSSF - we need to work things out.
        * AI: set a target date for a TAC vote on project donation process, and then schedule Pyrsia for project review at meeting immediately following
    * DavidW: Pyrsia has been waiting a while, need to make progress.
    * Steve: Here is an example of how the CD Foundation handles projects arising from technical initiatives vs. intake of existing efforts: 
    * Josh Bressers: Let’s steal the CNCF process
    * Aeva: Good idea, but it’ll take effort to complete this.
    * People who will work this: Aeva, Sudhindra, Bob,
        * Aeva: ~40 hours to create them… asking for help …
        * Folks with time to write: Sudhindra, Bob Callaway
        * Folks with time to review: Arnaud, Josh B, David W., Sudhindra Rao, Steve Chin, Jory
        * Sudhindra Rao: I can help copy stuff over and do initial edits
        * David W: I can help, stretched thin
* [aeva] github issue triage
    * There’s a lot of backlog and inconsistency in issue life cycle. Some are stale, others may be but no one’s sure.
    * I propose we create a taxonomy of github tags, e.g.` [category]/[status]` , and document it in ossf/community (or ossf/foundation, per above)
    * then spend some portion of each TAC meeting (or a pre-TAC “burn down” meeting?) reviewing specific issues in the ossf/tac repo, based on those tags
    * For reference, the taxonomy of labels in k8s: [test-infra/labels.md at master · kubernetes/test-infra (github.com)](https://github.com/kubernetes/test-infra/blob/master/label_sync/labels.md) 
* [wheeler] FYI: Plan to release the OpenSSF fundamentals course on a second platform (LF IT) so we can issue free certificates; we’ll continue to use edX so we can reach the many people who use edX
* [CRob] - Vuln Disc. WG wants to create a new repo for a Security Researcher OS CVD Guide (similar to our OSS Maintainer [Guide](https://github.com/ossf/oss-vulnerability-guide)).  Original guide is a project off the foundation’s repo.  QUESTION - do we want to/can we do the same thing for this new project?
    * David: Let the WG decide if a new repo needs to be created. Sometimes that’s really helpful, sometimes it’s overhead.
    * If you want a new repo, send an email to Jory!
* More generally: Permissions on GitHub
    * Problem: GitHub doesn’t have a lot of fine-grained permissions
    * Prow is used by CNCF to set permissions (yaml file in repo) - might be useful to use in OpenSSF as well. E.g., ability to merge != make arbitrary changes, but GitHub doesn’t recognize that.
    * Prow also creates an audit trail: changes in permissions are tracked as changes in code in the repo. 
    * VM: Let’s first figure out what the problem is, before we try to add more complexity. It’s good to know some have found this useful, but look at alternatives & make sure it actually solves our problems.
    * Some probably was resolved just because permissions were wrong within GitHub.
    * Please reply to [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/90](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/90) if you have permission concerns