# **2022-05-31 Meeting**

Attendance (please add yourself)



* CRob (Intel, **TAC**)
* VM Brasseur (Wipro)
* Anne Bertucio (Google)
* Steve Taylor (DeployHub)
* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, **TAC**)
* Bob Callaway (Google, **TAC**)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft, **TAC**)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC**)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* Steve Chin (JFrog)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC**)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, **TAC**)
* Jenn Bonner (Linux Foundation)
* Jory Burson (Linux Foundation)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat, **TAC**)
* Brian Behlendorf (Linux Foundation)
* Michael Winser
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Jennifer Bly (Linux Foundation)
* Jamie Magee (Microsoft)
* Justin Hutchings (GitHub)
* Arnaud “Arno” J Le Hors (IBM)
* Matt Rutkowski (IBM)
* Mark Atwood

## Agenda



* Continue conversation on project criteria & governance
    * Please add comments to [https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/103](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/103)
    * Jory will set up a Doodle poll for a follow-up meeting
    * Anne: It’s worth taking a pass through
    * Arnaud: Could merge & then create issues for contentious issues
* Pyrsia Q&A
    * Steve Chin: We’d like guidance on how to take Pyrsia forward within OpenSSF.
    * Fundamentally a peer-to-peer (P2P) binary distribution network
    * Implemented primarily with Rust
    * Supports multi-node verification of builds (reproducible builds)
    * Underlying ledger is a blockchain built on “proof of authority” (consensus), counters attacks on network (e.g., subverting a node isn’t enough). See 2019 research paper for more information.
    * Primary participating organizations: JFrog, Docker, DeployHub
    * “Is Pyrsia a new package manager?”
        * No.
        * Trying to fit in with existing package managers, e.g., working with Docker to create an open source DockerHub
        * Working with Docker & CNCF, simplifying integration
    * Does this depend on proof-of-work or proof-of-stake? Or relying on enclaves?
        * No. Uses proof-of-authority. It’s using PBFT. It does NOT use a cryptocurrency.
    * Is this sandbox or incubation?
        * Currently sandbox. Not production yet.
    * Older slides: [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QwIAiH_M8HlYQKU3yQTQfeXR3T-KAJif/edit](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1QwIAiH_M8HlYQKU3yQTQfeXR3T-KAJif/edit)
    * Aeva: Does Pyrsia depend on reproducible builds? “Docker build” isn’t reproducible due to gzip & timestamp
        * Pyrsia doesn’t depend on reproducible builds, it is better
        * We do think we can do reproducible builds in the case of docker.
        * Jacques Chester: Buildpacks manage to get largely reproducible builds because they directly assemble layers rather than relying on the docker build command
    * Justin Hutchings: Is anyone asking for this capability?
        * JFrog: Yes, many of our customers are interested in improving reliability of remote repositories. Repos sometimes aren’t available & they file against JFrog.
        * Docker & JFrog see, esp for container images, distributing Docker images & making it fully OSS makes sense. Containers are large, & they have a lot of them, creating huge amounts of data to store.
        * Want higher reliability & long-time storage of all this data
        * Josh B: What about data?
        * Steve Chin: I can try to get some reliability data [& some size growth data?]
        * Abhishek: Immutable Content?
            * Content isn’t immutable, it’s the metadata that is immutable. So you can update a later transaction
        * Aeva: SLSA guidance suggests running a local mirror/cache to support reproducibility locally -- so if an organization were already doing that, wouldn't they be buffered against a remote repo having "occasional" availability issues?
        * Abhishek Arya to Everyone: Can an attacker can create a large number of malicious nodes to drive majority
        * There’s a key revocation process
        * Jacques: Some things need to be physically removable, though. Eg. Child Sexual Abuse Material (CSAM) is violently radioactive content and you can't say that you just masked it. Aeva: Also, GDPR and CCPA impose right-to-delete requirements on PII as well.
        * Luke Hinds: It seems more like an interesting package manager technology, but what is the security problem it’s addressing? It needs to meet the OpenSSF mission statement.
        * Aeva: does "address occasional availability issues" solve a significant enough security concern for the OpenSSF?
        * Bob: I think we need to consolidate mission statement - what is the problem being solved? Also, need governance model for it.
        * CRob: one thing we (royal we) tend to not be great at is quantifying the value of decentralization, especially in a steady-state environment. It's a part of our inability in general to evaluate long-tail risks.
        * Brian: one thing we (royal we) tend to not be great at is quantifying the value of decentralization, especially in a steady-state environment. It's a part of our inability in general to evaluate long-tail risks.
        * Steve Chin: So let’s go off to more clearly state how this meets OpenSSF objectives
* FuzzIntrospector v0.X launch and developer engagement plan
    * Abhishek: Tries to solve fuzzing problem - the fuzzer can stop finding bugs because it can’t investigate some parts of code. The fuzz introspector tool helps reveal where fuzzers are getting stuck. It’s now mature enough to be used. It’s been presented to its WG.
    * We now want to create a short blog post about fuzz introspector on OpenSSF blog. [https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector/blob/main/doc/CaseStudies.md](https://github.com/ossf/fuzz-introspector/blob/main/doc/CaseStudies.md)
    * CRob: I think an official OpenSSF blog post would be nice!
    * Bob: An announcement & call for action / engagement would make sense
    * What’s the expectation?
* Also: Welcome to Jennifer Bly, new OpenSSF Sr. Marketing Manager!
* +1 to having periodic updates to the TAC


