# **2022-06-03 Meeting - Project Criteria and Governance Tiger Team**

Attendance (please add yourself)



* Jenn Bonner (LF, OpenSSF)
* David A. Wheeler (LF, OpensSF)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, **TAC**)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft, **TAC**)
* Anne Bertucio (Google)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC**)
* Bob Callaway (Google, **TAC**)
* Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
* Andrew Aitken (Wipro)
* Eric Tice (Wipro)
* Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)
* Steve Chin (JFrog)

**Action items**



* Legal review form: Probably Mike Dolan to own this] - legal review only needed once at whatever stage the project requests to enter
* Jenn Bonner: Double check permissions on GitHub repos – TAC should have admin permissions. 
* [mdolan@linuxfoundation.org](mailto:mdolan@linuxfoundation.org) to resolve [https://github.com/ossf/foundation/issues/17](https://github.com/ossf/foundation/issues/17), [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/26](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/26)
* ~~[Anne Bertucio](mailto:annebertucio@google.com)to open a PR about resources for project, tag [aeva.black@microsoft.com](mailto:aeva.black@microsoft.com) **Done: https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/107**~~
* Arno → [Template/PR] for projects to request moving between criteria [forms [here](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/working_version_process/process/project-lifecycle.md)] – 4 in total, one for each stage
* ~~[TBAssigned] Capture the requirements and recommendations for project governancehttps://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/108~~

## Agenda



* Workflow
    * Get working_version_branch in a good place as a TAC Tiger Team
    * Propose the [working_version_branch](https://github.com/ossf/tac/tree/working_version_process/process) to both the TAC and GB
* What progress have we made so far
    * Terminology
        * Defined SIG and Working Groups
        * Have added a graph that lays out the relationship between TAC, GB, SIGs, and WG
    * Project Donation and Progression
        * Project benefits and responsibilities
            * Benefits include obligations for LF staff and marketing committee
        * Defines stages and criteria for moving between stages
* What needs to get added to that branch before it goes to GB
    * Tactical aspects
        * [Template/PR] for projects to request moving between criteria [forms [here](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/working_version_process/process/project-lifecycle.md)] – 4 in total, one for each stage
        * Legal review form →  [Probably Mike Dolan to own this] - legal review only needed once at whatever stage the project requests to enter
    * Does the OSSF want to prescribe a governance model to project?
        * Points in favor
            * Want to avoid confusion, want to give guidance to get off on a good foot
            * Because OSSF is an open foundation, should have some minimum requirements around elections
                * Open, transparent, elections, process defined for electorate 
                * Are there projects that don’t need an election?
                * Rules on how to become a maintainer should be clear
                * Should there be a TOC per project? A charter?
                    * Is that prohibitive for graduated but small projects?
                * What do we do about projects with 1-2 maintainers but is valuable to open source security?
                    * Are there tiers within Graduated? Does Graduated need to be one size fits all
                * 
        * In current docs, there’s a check in every 6 months and a TAC sponsor. That process and where that check in info lives should be consistent across project. 
        * Lazy consensus:
            * Not defining hard, required structure around things like voting
            * Points of contacts
            * Transparency in how people become a maintainer
            * Transparency in who gets what kind of decision (related to above)
            * Can have recommendations beyond that, but not requirements
            * In project form, will ask why project is structured the way it is
        * Requirement on project reports exists - [“Bi-annual updates to the TAC on technical vision and progress on vision”](https://st1.zoom.us/web_client/3jktxx3/html/externalLinkPage.html?ref=https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/working_version_process/process/project-lifecycle.md#project-reponsibilities). Bob suggests adding a template for preso.
        * DCO/CLA requirement for projects? [Michael Dolan](mailto:mdolan@linuxfoundation.org) - [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/26](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/26) 
    * Process for asking for resources
        * **How **is missing
            * Blog
            * Conference Space
            * Maintainer stipend or grant
            * Vendor contracts
            * Other requests (swag)
        * Need bidirectional discussion between Budget Committee, WGs, TAC to forecast 
            * Need a finance policy for how the budget is built
            * And a process for one-off requests
        * Requirement for SOWs in budget requests
        * Awareness only, TAC won’t approve budgets or funding
            * Distinguish between baseline services (everyone gets $$ for swag) and larger, technical spend
    * Trademark usage
        * CNCF: if incubating or sandbox project uses logo, requires project puts “incubating” or “sandbox” next to the logo → distinguishes from graduating
    * For further discussion
        * Andrew: TAC input into GB has been disappointing; need to be governance and requirements for GB to engage with the TAC
            * (multiple +1s) – TAC need to be involved in technical decisions in OSSF
* [annebertucio – parking lot of various items!]
    * ~~Project governance → Should OpenSSF prescribe this in any way? (pros/cons of this)~~
    * Trademark use – all in agreement? (Will need to run by LF)
    * Infrastructure guarantee for incubating and graduation – agreement? (Will need to set up with OSSF staff)
    * Is the POC for projects to request funding clear in the docs? (Maybe not full process, but the starting point, “Do I ask the TAC? Do I go straight to the Budget Committee?”)
    * TODO by [Jenn Bonner]: Double check permissions on GitHub repos – TAC should have admin permissions. 
    * SIF governance


