# **2023-04-04 Meeting**
**Attendance (please add yourself):



* Kurt Taylor (LF)
* Bob Callaway (Google, **TAC**)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* CRob (Intel, **TAC**)
* Luke Hinds (**TAC**)
* Jack K (ControlPlane)
* Khahil White (LF)
* Brian Behlendorf (LF)
* Jennifer Bly (LF)
* Jay White (Microsoft)
* [Isaac Hepworth](mailto:isaach@google.com) (Google)
* David Edelsohn (IBM, GTI)
* Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)
* Zach Steindler (GitHub)
* Jeff Borek (IBM)
* Tim Pepper (VMware)
* David K (Intel)
* Jonathan Leitschuh (OpenSSF: Project Alpha Omega)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)

Regrets:



* Aeva Black (Microsoft, **TAC**)
* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, **TAC**)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC, _Transitioning off_**)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, **TAC, _Transitioning off_**) \


Agenda:



* Congratulations & Thanks: TAC / SCIR Election Results
    * TAC: Dustin Ingram - Google (new), Bob Callaway - Google (returning), Aeva Black - Microsoft (returning), and Daniel Lorenc - Chainguard (returning)
    * SCIR: Luke Hinds
    * GB Appointments to be made and will be effective by next TAC meeting
* <span style="text-decoration:underline;">Given attendance and transitional TAC membership, this meeting was not quorate</span>
* (_10 min max_): [Isaac Hepworth] Update from **Supply Chain Integrity WG **
    * Draft [Vision Doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SuJHaCr89Ih6TFvAIH2WM5M4_MlXwM8mqHynUBuungE/edit?resourcekey=0-wg-QROzZFa4Ju_uN_wOBNQ)
    * Will have panel at OS Summit NA
    * FYI: Isaac is new chair, Melba Lopez and Jay White are new co-chairs
    * SLSA 
        * 1.0 RC2 coming
        * Preparations for official 1.0 release: PR, blog posts, coordinating across participating orgs
    * Seeing adopters popping up at distance from OpenSSF itself
    * FRSCA 
        * Trying to find more maintainers/contributors. 
        * Hard to see what downstream customers want: (1) example/ref arch? (2) Or for something turnkey they can migrate to? Less appetite for second usage than expected. 
        * Looking now how to see what FRSCA can do for existing / incumbent build systems
    * S2C2F
        * Working through initial set of issues
        * Some training material has been developed, ~90% complete course. 
        * Talk accepted for RSA conf
    * Asks of TAC:
        * FRSCA: use cases/evangelization of project? Alignment with Sterling Toolchain concepts? Help bringing new contributors 
* **[jbly]** OpenSSF Day PR & Project/WG monthly feature on OpenSSF blog
    * OpenSSF Day on May 10 at OSS NA
        * Press Release scheduled for that day
        * Please send along announcements to potentially include in the Press Kit
    * Blog series starting tomorrow, April 5
        * Feature a project or WG with recent accomplishments and CFP
        * Perhaps follow a rotation similar to the TAC updates 
* [CRob] (inform) - BEST WG adopted Memory Safety SIG under our umbrella to help drive Stream 04 from the Mobilization Plan
* [brian/bob] TAC expansion proposal
    * Brian Behlendorf: will lay proposal before GB to add 2 members (taking to 9), adding 2 appointed this year, changing to 1 appt 1 elected for next year.
    * Bob Callaway: not sure if growing to 9 is necessary, perhaps need more staff support and engagement from TAC
    * Jacques Chester: keen to see end user representation on TAC, as end users have distinct problems, incentives and perspectives from vendors and producers
    * David Edelsohn: should there be TAC subcommittees to subdivide tasks?
* [Jonathan Leitschuh] - [Proposal: Open Source Security Foundation Vulnerability Disclosure Policy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W2Xfw9i5pSA-0XbIw3a4kcW2o4PByxDbjcnWe9mlQwA/edit#heading=h.3fukntovbf8q)
    * Note: this proposal would only apply to vulnerabilities that are disclosed by the OpenSSF, not inbound to OpenSSF projects
    * This is scoped to manual reporting - automated mass reporting would be a separate policy, which is still being worked.
    * If we discover it’s being actively exploited after the private reporting, the shorter timeframe begins. In practice, we’re unlikely to use the short timeframe often; proprietary vendors have the executables & often have information to alert them about it, while we typically only see source code repositories & don’t have a lot of information on active exploitation.
    * LF Legal is currently reviewing this document, hopefully we’ll hear from them by next TAC meeting & have any tweaks from them. If so, we’d like the TAC to vote on this policy in the next TAC meeting.
    * Please review by tomorrow 11am ET.
    * Review only at today’s meeting, for vote offline OR at next TAC meeting
    * We could also vote offline, we don’t have to wait for the next synchronous meeting


