# **2023-10-17**


## Attendance ((please **mark an “X” if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name/Affiliation</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GH ID</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors (IBM, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>lehors
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (Google, <strong>TAC</strong>)  
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>bobcallaway
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>CRob (Intel, <strong>TAC</strong>, <strong>BEST WG facilitator & Disc facilitator, End User WG</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist (Snyk, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Dustin Ingram (Google, <strong>TAC, Securing SW Repos WG Lead)</strong>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>di
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Michael Lieberman <strong>(TAC)</strong>
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>mlieberman85
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Zach Steindler (GitHub, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>steiza
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin (LF)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Georg Kunz (Ericsson)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware (Intel)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Dana Wang
   </td>
   <td>She/Sher
   </td>
   <td>danajoyluck
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



### Agenda:

_Agenda Items should be entered no less than 24 hours prior to call.  New business should be logged as an [Issue ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues)in the TAC repository._



* Request volunteer for scribe
    *  Dan
* Determine TAC quorum: 5/7, meets quorum
    *  Bob Callaway - sends regrets
* Update homework/outstanding ARs
    * Process documentation updates (see below)
* TAC Update on Groups - _10 min _MAX each (provide template ahead as pre-read)
    * Supply Chain Integrity - Isaac Hepworth 
        * [&lt;link to preso>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ChcFJeyt9hl2L-1cgYcb9DGiaNzXOmNmwDOkidM_03M/edit?usp=drive_link)
        * Encouraging to see contributor numbers & attendance going up…
        * Engagement trending in right direction
        * Sub-projects: gittuf (new), GUAC (new), SLSA, S2C2F, 
        * Melba had to step back from co-chair due to other time commitments
        * Q3: SLSA expansion work. SLSA 1.0 was intentionally downscoped (no level 4, no source track) so it could be released, in process of re-establishing & where else we need it.
        * S2C2F - CISA recently referenced it. Looking at tools realm
        * Supply chain control plane concept paper /blog post in progress.
        * GUAC - provides tooling with reasoning about supply chain metadata.
        * Gittuf - security for git
        * Concept of Supply Chain Control Plane - policy across the different stages of the operational domain - dependency management, source management, build, release management. 
        * Requests to TAC:
            * More deliberate approach to WG design? - What kind of refactoring might we do? How can we bring the community aspect to that?
            * Formal architecture / technology biases? - Some formal architectural / technology bias from the TAC could be helpful. E.g. we believe in attestations - and **in toto** attestations specifically - that would help to [unify approach to attestation].
    * Security Tooling - Ryan Ware
        * &lt;link to preso>
        * “We’re alive.” We had the first real meeting last week. First time it’s met since … to focus on something other than SBOM everywhere. Focused on some key things:
            * Being clear about what we’re trying to do. Some voices (e.g. at Bilbao OpenSSF Day) were saying should this wg exist? I think we have lots of good work to do and we will get participation.
            * “Driving Security Tools Standardization & Consensus” - good example is SBOM everywhere SIG. SBOM is the poster child but not the only child going forward.
            * Developer resource security tool - what are the key things? Developers aren’t experts. Many don’t even know what kind of tools to use. E.g., “I’m using node in this IDE in GitLab…” and show “here are tools you should be using”. We don’t want to pick winners & losers, as long as the tool meets the expectation. A security source code analysis tool isn’t a linter.
            * I’m putting together a new MVSR for the WG. Want to ensure TAC is behind that vision.
            * Dana: How does this compare to the Toolbelt group?
                * Ryan: I expect them to work together. My thoughts. Toolbelt is more documentation of “what kinds of tools do you ned to use”. Security tooling WG is helping to create the pieces that fit into the toolbelt.
                * Crob: sterling toolchain was dreamed of a year ago, months later there was effort to make progress. At the time there was no tooling wg - so no group to home it - so now that the group has started back up it could live there.
                * Michael: it seems like there’s a general vision for the tooling working group - good top capture anything we feel is still a need but not met by the new tooling wg.  1 being a wg for the actual hands-on developers to do some work - working on features & technical problems not only architecture; 2 there are things like SLSA, SC2CF, etc… but what about tools that want to take “all” [?]
                * Arnaud: are you going to re-charter?
                * Ryan: we are putting together an MVSR.
* &lt;link to preso>Any Foundation/Staff Updates to provide (news, events, blogs, etc)
    * Omkhar: question - MVSRs - Stephen Walli had proposed an organization-wide MVSR elsewhere
        * That hasn’t been discussed at length. Don’t think they’re mutually exclusive. Tension has been removing the current charters and altering to be a “scope” potentially…
        * David: observing - SCI wg working on overall model - toolbelt 
            * Crob: 7 groups working on threatmodels - i think it should be streamlined
            * David: it should be a group wide - merging various views into one view.
        * Ryan: Individual groups MVSRs should have traceability up to org’s MVSR…
        * Arnaud: we had an effort to get every wg a charter - but we didn’t give people proper directives …  Don’t know if we need MVSR for each group but we need something like a scope statement.
        * Omkhar: I don't want to get rid of charters or MVSRs - maybe one M, one S, one V for the whole org without each group needing its own MVSR. I have no opinion, just let’s agree on what we’re doing.
* Review new work - (seeking TAC comments, edits, approvals) - ISSUES & PRs filed in TAC Repo
    * [TAC Issue 208](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/208) - WG Lead R&R - _10min_
    * We saw there was an ill-defined set of roles & responsibilities for a wg lead… we’re trying to correct that.
        * Isaac: great list - making sure that the WGs are “legible” to other working groups is a key responsibility. E.g. every time we have a meeting, post a little summary in the slack - so we can see there what we’ve discussed.
        * Dan: 2-3 hours, not 1-2… 
        * Ryan: agree with both the above points.
        * Crob: we would share this with WG leads and get their feedback and then publish this as part of the body of documentation within the TAC. Then we’ll document the roles & responsibilities of working in the TAC. Please add comments to the issue.
* Question about where we store the meeting recordings.
    * Amanda: in your “personal meeting spot” in LFX.: [https://openprofile.dev/my-calendar](https://openprofile.dev/my-calendar) 
* Updates on older matters 
    * **INFORM **- [TAC PR 178](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/178) - Guac move to Incubating
    * **INFORM **- With the upcoming Operational Model discussions with the GB, the TAC will be updating our TI definitions, lifecycle stages, and associated documentation within [https://github.com/ossf/tac/tree/main/process](https://github.com/ossf/tac/tree/main/process) 
    * 
        * TIs will be _Working Groups, Projects_ (expanded now to cover specs), and _SIGs_
        * All TIs will share a common lifecycle (that will be tailored for each specific category as needed) - _Sandbox, incubating, Graduated, Archived_
        * 

<p id="gdcalert7" ><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>>  gd2md-html alert: inline image link here (to images/image7.png). Store image on your image server and adjust path/filename/extension if necessary. </span><br>(<a href="#">Back to top</a>)(<a href="#gdcalert8">Next alert</a>)<br><span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">>>>>> </span></p>


![alt_text](images/image7.png "image_tooltip")

        * WG updates
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/206](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/206)
        * SIG Updates
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/202](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/202) 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/161](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/161) 
        * Project Updates
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/205](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/205)
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/204](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/204) 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/83](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/83)  
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/78](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/78) 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/85](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/85)  (to be folded into ops model & closed)
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/108](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/108) 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/121](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/121) 
        * And then review all existing TIs to determine & document at what stage they are at: [https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/162](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/162) 
        * Create “onboarding decks” for TIs to explain process, maybe create video companions too
* Issues for VOTE (list issue #)
    * **VOTE **- Recommend to GB for adoption - Secure Software Development Guiding Principles - Jessica Marz + Sarah Evans - _10min_
        * [TAC Issue 193 ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/193)
        * Took TAC feedback from last call and updated, re-requesting review/recommendation
        * Dustin & Bob both express support via mailing list
        * Crob: Should we endorse? Both bob & dustin have expressed support.
        * Michael: support
        * Ryan: support - think we should get this out there.
        * Crob: next step would be to share with the GB…
        * Arnaud: 1 question (a-la Columbo): question on signatures - it won’t be legible with so many signatures… Some work needs to be done on signatures.
        * Crob: intent is that any org that wants to adopt these practices would “sign” - we can figure out how to deal with a signatory page. Patches welcome…
        * [voting: Dan, Zach, Crob, Arnaud, Michael expressed support]
        * Crob: so that is unanimous – I will share that with the Governing board - i will present it in the TAC update to the GB.
    * Please flag any issues for voting for next meeting
* AOB
    * None this week


