# **2023-11-14**


## Attendance ((please **mark an “X” if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name/Affiliation</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GH ID</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors (IBM, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>lehors
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (Google, <strong>TAC</strong>)  
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>bobcallaway
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>CRob (Intel, <strong>TAC</strong>, <strong>BEST WG facilitator & Disc facilitator, End User WG</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist (Independent, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Dustin Ingram (Google, <strong>TAC, Securing SW Repos WG Lead)</strong>
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>di
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Michael Lieberman <strong>(TAC)</strong>
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>mlieberman85
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Zach Steindler (GitHub, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>steiza
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin (LF)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Dana Wang (LF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jennifer Bly (LF, OpenSSF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Adrianne Marcum (LF)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>afmarcum
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Harry Toor (LF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Bennett Pursell (LF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Khahil White (LF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Amir Montazery (OSTIF, <strong>Securing Critical Projects co-lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>David Edelsohn (IBM, <strong>CTI co-lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Jay White (Microsoft)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Jeffrey Borek (IBM)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Michael Scovetta (Microsoft, <strong>Alpha-Omega, ID Security Threat WG lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware (Intel)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Sarah Evans (Dell Technologies)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Michael Winser
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Maximilian Huber
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Aeva Black
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Hayden Blauzvern
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Nick Vidal
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



---


### Agenda:

_Agenda Items should be entered no less than 24 hours prior to call.  New business should be logged as an [Issue ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues)in the TAC repository._



* Request volunteer for scribe
    *  
* Determine TAC quorum
    *  Quorum met - all 7 TAC members joined today!
* Update homework/outstanding ARs
    * Noted for future meetings
* TAC Update on Groups - _10 min _MAX each (provide template ahead as pre-read)
    *  Alpha-Omega - Scovetta
        * &lt;link to preso>
        * Not just “Michaels”
        * Continue to “turn money into security”. Focus is on sustainably improving security, focusing on the most critical parts of the ecosystem
        * It’s working!!
        * There are 4 basic buckets (see the slide): staffing security, artifact repos, audits & sustainability, and innovation (Prossimo).
        * We originally thought PSF & Apache would sustain quickly. In *some* way it worked, in the sense that some projects did get funding, but trying to do it all in 1 year is frankly too short. Typically the work needs more time to get there.
        * Tough decision: Cut some other tasks on the Omega side, hard decision but we think it was the right decision. “We’re better at spending money than doing engineering work”
        * Michael Winslow: The original write-up said that this was a multi-year process, it turns out we were right, it’s multi-year. We are still focusing on making things sustainable, but we’re recognizing that it takes more than a year to get there & projects need stable funding while it changes.
        * Noticed can’t do anything with less than 10 people in Google is really true.
        * Would love intros - send them your way.
        * As we’ve working on this, we’ve refined our strategy so we can put focus on the right place.
        * The Securing Repositories Working Group can’t take full credit, but have helped with some of that A-O matchmaking with things like [https://repos.openssf.org/proposals/build-provenance-and-code-signing-for-homebrew](https://repos.openssf.org/proposals/build-provenance-and-code-signing-for-homebrew)
        * Zach Steindler: Really, really impressed by the impact per dollar of A-O’s funding efforts
        * 
    *  Sigstore - Hayden Blauzvern
        * [&lt;link to preso>](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/18zSpGPJwTeX6ogbx0vpRLhb57Oqe0RkKgXZWBjiAdiA/edit#slide=id.p1)
        * npm generating Sigstore-signed SLSA provenance, is generally available
        * Homebrew Sigstore-signed SLSA provenance funded via Alpha-Omega
        * 99.5% availability SLO maintained by multi-vendor oncall
        * Clients: Stable releases of Python and JavaScript clients, Java nearing 1.0, API & dependency graph improvements for Go, Rust under development, Ruby, early WIP (discussion but not serious work yet). Hope to use Rust as a “default client” because many ecosystems can call to it.
            * Is Sigstore stable enough for implementations? Yes.
        * SIG-Ops - 10 devs from 4 companies support 24/7 support
        * Want to focus on workload-identity instead of developer identity
        * 
* Any Foundation/Staff Updates to provide (news, events, blogs, etc)
    *  OpenSSF Best Practices badge has a [new winning logo](https://github.com/coreinfrastructure/best-practices-badge/issues/1722), which will be applied (in some ways these non-technical bikeshedding tasks are the hardest to get rough consensus on!):
        * <img width="311" alt="badge_logo" src="https://github.com/jsoref/tac/assets/51727488/aae29657-4e85-44cd-bb71-aaea31c0a1d7">
* Daniel Appelquest: I am no longer with previous employer. I’m continuing my TAC participation as an independent.
    * This is already permitted by our rules, this isn’t a special exception.
* Review new work - (seeking TAC comments, edits, approvals) - ISSUES & PRs filed in TAC Repo
    * [ TAC Issue 213](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/213) - TAC size & elections + TAC R&R - _10 min_
        * Expanding TAC to 9 total individuals - 6 elected by the community, 3 appointed by the GB
            * The GB just approved this change last week; it had been recommended by the governance committee earlier.
            * Copy from the updated charter: 6) Technical Advisory Council (TAC): a) The TAC will be composed of six (6) representatives elected annually by all active contributors to Technical Initiatives and three (3) representatives appointed by the Governing Board. The terms of the 3 representatives appointed by the Governing Board are for 1 year. The terms of the 6 elected representatives are for 2 years, in 2 groups staggered so that each year 3 terms expire. For that purpose, on the first year (2024), 3 members will be randomly selected to serve for a single year. If any TAC elected representative seat is vacant and more than 90 days remain until the next election, the Governing Board may fill such vacancy by appointing the candidate with the next highest vote total in the most recent election to serve the remainder of the term of the vacant seat.
        * Terms will be for 2 years (staggered), with 50% of the 2024 TAC serving for 1 year, 50% serving 2 (volunteer + random selection)
        * More about voting process is here: 
            * [https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/elections/tac-and-scir-election-process.md](https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/elections/tac-and-scir-election-process.md) 
    * [TAC Issue 208 ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/208)- Document WG Lead Roles & Responsibilities (R&R) _- 5 min_
        * Wg lead should facilitate meetings.. … details in the issue.
        * The plan will be to put this in the repo
        * Arno: not about adding bureaucracy … 
        * Michael: a lot of feedback that people don’t know where to go in OpenSSF… so this is about making things clearer.
        * Co-leads are welcome!!
    * Ops Model alignment - series of PRs/Issues to revamp & align the TI stages_- 15 min_
        * Goal is to help drive consistency… 
        * A “technical initiative” is a working group, SIG, or project. We’re going to merge specifications into “project” … all of these will be TIs - all will follow a similar lifecycle: Sandbox, Incubating, Graduated, Archived 
        * All documented - and as part of **Ops Model** (kudos to Sarah Evans).
        * The more mature, the more diverse contributors you have, etc… the more benefits…
        * It’s important to make it clear “what does a project get by joining the OpenSSF as a project” - what do each sides get? That will help people decide if they want to pursue it.
        * [project donation process](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/78)
        * [Project Progression](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/83)
        * [Project governance](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/108)
        * [project resource requests](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/121)
        * [WG Lifecycle](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/206)
        * [update sig process](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/161)
        * [Spec dev structure](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/204)
        * [PR - licensing for specs](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/211)
        * [PR - Update Project for Specs](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/205)
        * [OpenSSF Security MVP](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/215)
        * See: https://github.com/ossf/tac/tree/main/process
        * 

<img width="243" alt="structure1" src="https://github.com/jsoref/tac/assets/51727488/92b5bdf4-b1ea-4a1a-91e1-333bb325b5c9">
<br>
<img width="245" alt="structure2" src="https://github.com/jsoref/tac/assets/51727488/86ed7d22-135d-41d4-a003-e278fac72989">



* Updates on older matters 
    * 
* Issues for VOTE (list issue #)
    * None this week
    * Please flag any issues for voting for next meeting
* AOB
    * **INFORM **- DEI WG proposal to be discussed 28Nov


