# **2023-06-27**


## Attendance ((please **mark an “X” if you are here,** or add-row name/email/affiliation if joining)


<table>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Name/Affiliation</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>Pronouns</strong>
   </td>
   <td><strong>GH ID</strong>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Aeva Black (Microsoft, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>they/them
   </td>
   <td>AevaOnline
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Arnaud Le Hors (IBM, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>lehors
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Bob Callaway (Google, <strong>TAC</strong>)  
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>bobcallaway
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>CRob (Intel, <strong>TAC</strong>, <strong>BEST WG facilitator, Vuln Disc facilitator, End User WG</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>SecurityCRob
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>dlorenc
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Dustin Ingram (Google, <strong>TAC, Securing SW Repos WG Lead)</strong>
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>di
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Zach Steindler (GitHub, <strong>TAC</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>steiza
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Adrianne Marcum (LF)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Amanda Martin (LF)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>hythloda
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Brian Behlendorf (LF)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Omkhar Arasaratnam (LF)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>omkhar
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Daniel Appelquist (Snyk)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>torgo
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>David Edelsohn (IBM, <strong>CTI co-lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>x
   </td>
   <td>Jacques Chester (independent, <strong>End User WG co-lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>jchester
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Jay White (Microsoft)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Luke Hinds (Stacklok, SCIR(GB), sigstore TSC chair)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>lukehinds
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>Matt Rutkowski (IBM)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Michael Scovetta (Microsoft, <strong>Alpha-Omega, ID Security Threat WG lead</strong>)
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Ryan Ware (Intel)
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>ware
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Nigel Brown
   </td>
   <td>he/him
   </td>
   <td>therealnb
   </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
   <td>X
   </td>
   <td>Prachi Jadhav (Stacklok)
   </td>
   <td>she/her
   </td>
   <td>jprachir
   </td>
  </tr>
</table>



---


### Agenda:

_Agenda Items should be entered no less than 24 hours prior to call.  New business should be logged as an [Issue ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues)in the TAC repository._



* Request volunteer for scribe
    *  David Wheeler 
* Determine TAC quorum
    *  Dlorenc will be late
    * Quorate
* Update homework/outstanding ARs
    * **TAC Homework for 11July call **- BACKLOG SCRUB  - @ALL please review open Issues and PR’s and comment, approve, counterpropose, etc.before next call.  <span style="text-decoration:underline;">We’d love it if we could resolve all/most issues/pr’s opened prior to 2023 if possible.</span>
* TAC Update on Groups - _10 min _MAX each (provide template ahead as pre-read)
    * None this week
* Any Foundation/Staff Updates to provide (news, events, blogs, etc)
    *  
* Review new work - (seeking TAC comments, edits, approvals) - ISSUES & PRs filed in TAC Repo
    * [TAC Issue 177 ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/177)- Improving Prioritization, focus, and execution - _10 min _- Omkhar 
        * New staff member: Adrianne Marcum - NW Arkansas
        * In some ways security is an infinite problem. I find it helpful to think about use cases (what do developers, consumers, etc.), do; then develop a threat model to identify the threats & controls; producing a set of artifacts. ~ between now and September
        * Staff would organize this, plus your insight/approval - the goal is not to make this a major new burden to you, but instead something where we want your input.
        * Michael Scovetta: We did some of this ~ 2 years ago
        * Great! We’d like to collate, not so much “create anew”
        * Arnaud J. Le Hors: What channel for feedback?
        * We have a board meeting on the 13th. Week after board meeting - July 20 - work out a comms plan. I expect it’d have a GitHub repo & work like any other group. Want a set of a project plan. Haven’t thought through if there are meetings etc.
        * We do expect there to be regular meetings with the TAC. Needs to be more than 1/quarter.
        * Roadmaps encode responsibility
            * I’d love something like a radial roadmap, where goals are more defined as they get 3,6,9,12 months away. Easier to coordinate larger efforts to jump in at the right time
    * [TAC Issue 161](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/161) - [OpenSSF Workstream Taxonomy](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uONXSNOcyrT8IJsC3R52KiwE78IJAsddO9EZwURXazg/edit?usp=sharing) (EDIT: updated link for broader access) - _10 min _
        * Plea from Zach: please read the doc or reach out to Zach
        * Need a more descriptive process for SIGs & projects & maybe WGs
        * There are many questions - would like to work out some answers
        * Need to work out onboarding process for different personas
        * If you’d like to help write the proposal to answer these questions, please let Zach know!
    * [TAC Issue 175 ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/175)- [AI/ML WG Proposa](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Dvg1qRXb3nMFH37n52JN6jKso324j0BS5C0QDOZ-W3g/edit#)l -_15 min _- Nigel Brown
        * AI/ML is very cross-cutting - how can we avoid duplication? E.g., “best practices for using AI/ML in developing software” - AI/ML or Best Practices WG?
        * States legal issues out-of-scope. Surprised it’s declared out-of-scope.
            * Argument: We don’t have the legal expertise. We’re security folks, not legal experts
            * If the group goes ahead, we can discuss whether or not it’s in-scope
        * Jay: Brian B created a meeting with the LF AI & Big Data Foundation to work out. There are opportunities to collaborate. “Securing AI/ML code” - they have lawyers in those meetings. What we’d do is collaborate, I think it’d be better to have them work on the legal issues b/c they have more legal expertise already there.
        * I think https://github.com/ossf/tac/blob/main/process/working-group-lifecycle.md#to-become-incubating is the first step, which doesn’t include a charter
        * Arnaud: I don’t really expect a charter.
        * Perhaps a few sentences clarifying differences of this group with other groups? E.g., X does X1, Y does Y1.
            * Differences, and intentional collaboration - but I expect that to take time
        * Jay: I’ll lead on this.
        * Need a sponsor on TAC.
        * Bob Callaway: The issue isn’t that it lacks merit, it’s not on you really, it’s just that we’re trying to be intentional about de-duping based on more general concerns.
        * Group is asked to come back on 11July so an official vote can be held
    * [TAC Issue 176 ](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/176)- Publishing OpenSSF materials - _10 min_ - David Wheeler
        * We need a way to generate better-looking materials. One problem: there are a huge number of different ways to do it, leading to problems in figuring out what to do.
        * Proposal: “Simplest Possible Process” (SPP)
        * Starts with acknowledgement that currently OpenSSF materials are typically already on GitHub as markdown.
            * The easiest way to generate web pages suitable for publication, If you already have markdown on GitHub in a repo like we do, is to enable GitHub pages on that repo. This means that any change to the repo's main branch will immediately trigger recreating those pages and only the pages in that repo. The results rapidly deploy, since the trigger is known and a relatively small number of pages are involved. Making the results "pretty" requires adding a few files in a way that's trivial to do.
            * The easiest way to make the GitHub pages viewable is to assign a subdomain to every repo, e.g,. best.openssf.org for the best practices WG. This involves two easy one-time actions (add a DNS record and configure GitHub pages to use that DNS entry). GitHub will automatically get TLS certificates, so we quickly serve using https.
        * [https://best.openssf.org/Concise-Guide-for-Evaluating-Open-Source-Software](https://best.openssf.org/Concise-Guide-for-Evaluating-Open-Source-Software)
        * It doesn’t automatically insert date - please just add it to documents
        * GUIDANCE: Please insert “last edited date” in published docs!
        * Requested TAC decision: “If a WG/SIG/project wants to follow this simplest possible process, free to do so”
            * 4 TAC members agree, no disagree, proposal passes
* Updates on older matters 
    * 
* Issues for VOTE (list issue #)
    * None this week
    * Please flag any issues for voting for next meeting
* AOB
    * None this week


---


