# **2023-03-07 Meeting**
**Attendance (please add yourself):



* CRob (Intel, **TAC**)
* Bob Callaway (Google, **TAC**)
* Brian Behlendorf (LF/OpenSSF)
* Jeff Borek (IBM)
* Luke Hinds (Red Hat, **TAC**)
* [Francis Perron](mailto:f@u269c.com) (Person)
* Tracy Miranda (Chainguard)
* Josh Bressers (Anchore, **TAC**)
* Jacques Chester (Shopify)
* Phil Estes (AWS)
* Aeva Black (Microsoft, **TAC**)
* Kurt Taylor (LF)
* Jennifer Bly (LF)
* Jenn Bonner (LF)
* David Edelsohn (IBM, GTI)
* Dan Lorenc (Chainguard, **TAC**)
* Mattia Rizzolo (Reproducible Builds/Debian)
* benny Vasquez
* Justin Hutchings (GitHub)
* Rosaria Carr (Indeed)
* Arnaud J Le Hors (IBM)
* Abhishek Arya (Google, **TAC**)
* Dan Appelquist (Snyk)
* David A. Wheeler (Linux Foundation)
* [Kairo Francisco de Araujo](mailto:kdearaujo@vmware.com) (VMware)
* Zack Newman (Chainguard, Securing Software Repos)
* Randall
* Jay White (Microsoft)

Regrets:



*  \


Agenda:



* [CRob] BEST Practices WG Update
    * [BEST WG 2023 - TAC Update](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1n_zaIdwaG7Tv1UA0ZPnxl0Z7sFenKt7aB2A1vfMtgjc/)
    * Open Questions
        * How do we best apply scorecards and/or badges to OpenSSF’s projects?
        * …?
* [Jacques Chester] End User WG Update
    * Taxonomy of Supply Chain Attacks
        * [Born out of this paper](https://www.computer.org/csdl/proceedings-article/sp/2023/933600a167/1He7XSTyRKE)
        * Expand, refine, amplify as consistent way to speak about current state
        * Comparison against existing data sets to pressure-test
    * Develop Reference Architectures
        * Aligning with the Diagrammers Society work
    * Enabling cross-ecosystem studies on state of software repositories, potential vulnerabilities & design challenges
        * Shared conversation w/ Securing SW Repos WG
    * US National CyberSecurity Policy
    * [CFP] - Rallying cry for end users to evaluate their current security posture “[consumption manifesto](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MhiTQ5j6P-p6Naqnj27NP70a1Uik154JZAzkQ4j3IFQ/edit)”
        * Ask for TAC and community input/review
    * Andrew Aitken is stepping down as Vice Chair of WG
        * Jacques Chester is replacing Andrew 
* [CRob] Mobilization Plan Proposals - Call for additional feedback on Issues [131](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/131) & [134](https://github.com/ossf/tac/issues/134) 
* [CRob] Diagrammers Society presentation & observations/requests 
    * [https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society](https://github.com/ossf/Diagrammers-Society) 
    * [https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Xx-TblYarVTd3g7bLY4ifZx4OEhmSuQweqbjjPEgULw](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Xx-TblYarVTd3g7bLY4ifZx4OEhmSuQweqbjjPEgULw) 
    * Request For Input: “It is a pain to try and keep all these diagrams up to date, it would help to get some input so we can select a couple to start focusing on for now”
    * 
* (needs to start after :30 past) [Kairo / Zach / Joshua] New Sandbox Project request: [ossf/tac#137](https://github.com/ossf/tac/pull/137): contribute “RSTUF” (sponsored by Securing Software Repos WG)s
    * Containers are provided to simplify deployment.
    * E.g., a Python container that can run on bare metal (no Kubernetes).
    * The current documents focus on running on containers, but the system doesn’t require containers.
    * It does depend on Python-TUF.
    * Looking at the issues, doesn’t seem to be a major controversy.
    * TAC: We continue to have quorum, so we can vote right now.
    * Jacques: There was a great presentation about RSTUF at Securing Repos WG
        * [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XQ6k3QR95J4)
        * [Notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1-f6m442MHg9hktrbcp-4sM9GbZC3HLTpZPpxMXjMCp4/edit#heading=h.39jar4rgsvu9)
        * [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1Eu580ojkdMUEIY1Amh4IJNRga7WxkxaZoO5nyLrgsHw/edit#slide=id.p1)
    * The plan is to put RSTUF within the Securing Repos WG, the WG has already accepted it.
    * 6 approved, one abstain.
    * There seems to be confusing about how projects are accepted. Need to open an issue to clarify - the written requirements say “tell the TAC”, but in practice, if it’s to be part of WG, the WG agrees, and it’s in-scope of the WG, then the TAC is notified for issues but unless the TAC objects it’s in the OpenSSF. The TAC *must* vote to accept a project as a top-level project directly under the TAC.
    * 


