# 2025 Q3 TAC Report for Global Cybersecurity Policy Working Group

## Overview

* GitHub repo: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/
* Minutes doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit
* Charter: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/blob/main/CHARTER.md

This group has been formed in January 2025, after the Linux Foundation workshop on "Stewards and Manufacturers" in Amsterdam in December 2024. The shape of this group is very much based on consensus of that workshop. The scope of the group is to provide a forum for our members and the broader community to collaborate on Global Cybersecurity-related legislation, frameworks, and standards which facilitate conformance to regulatory requirements by open source projects and their consumers. We have been holding bi-weekly calls. We have 2 active SIGs - Awareness and Standards. The group is focusing most of its attention on the European Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) with some time put aside to monitor activities in other jurisdictions. We also have drafted a [liaisons list](https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/blob/main/governance/external-liaisons.md) which is a list of external organizations we feel we need to liaise with.

The group has produced deliverable documents, acted as an outreach vehicle, and also served as a venue to discuss and share information between community members regarding the regulatory landscape and its impacts on indistry and the OSS ecosystem.

We have two working group co-leads: [Daniel Appelquist | Samsung](https://github.com/torgo) and [Mike Bursell | Confidential Compute Consortium](https://github.com/MikeCamel) with support from [Crob](https://github.com/SecurityCRob), [Jeff Diecks](https://github.com/GeauxJD) and [Madalin Neag](https://github.com/madalinnneag) from OpenSSF staff. Madalin has joined since our last report. Mike Bursell is due to step down as co-chair by the end of October, so we are actively looking for another co-chair.

We also operate the "EU CRA Monthly Tech Talk" (n√©e the "CRA Tech Bi-weekly"), the agenda of which is managed by the Awareness SIG.

We have a regular schedule of calls for our Awareness and Standards SIGs and have started to take minutes in our main minutes doc.  We have put the Tooling SIG on the back burner due to lack of energy at this time, as well as the fact that many of the goals of this SIG are actually being progressed in the ORBIT working group. We are operating in a similar mode to the Best Practices Working group, with our SIGs reporting into the main working group call.  We have well attended meetings. Our general working group call, besides being a place where SIGs report, also serves as a venue to work on general deliverables and to drive awareness with group members of related activities. 

Last week, we held a special f2f hybrid meeting of the working group at Open Source Summit Europe. The focus on this meeting was to hear from two different organizations about their CRA readiness work and plans. We heard from Nokia and Balena, two very different companies. The results are minuted i[n our regular minutes doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit?tab=t.0). We also discussed the recent call for comments from CISA on [their 2025 Minimum SBOM elements](https://www.cisa.gov/resources-tools/resources/2025-minimum-elements-software-bill-materials-sbom).

We have helped to launch the successful [Free LF Training on CRA](https://openssf.org/press-release/2025/04/29/openssf-launches-free-course-to-prepare-developers-for-the-eu-cyber-resilience-act/) by providing feedback and input. ~3000 enrollments so far.  

Since our last report:

* We have produced a [CRA Brief Guide for OSS Developers](https://best.openssf.org/CRA-Brief-Guide-for-OSS-Developers) to go along with the other OpenSSF concise guides. Also [blogged here](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/07/15/new-cyber-resilience-act-cra-brief-guide-for-oss-developers/).

* We submitted a response to the EU CRA act consultation: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/issues/47

* We have started work on ideas around specifying a "compliance" file for OSS repos - that would include information about stewardship as well as additional info: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/issues/69

* We are inputting into work led by Crob on stewardship guidance for the LF.

Members of this group will be attending the [upcoming LF Europe "Policy-focused" roadshow event](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/lf-europe-roadshow-regulation/). 

## Awareness SIG

The awareness SIG is led by [Megan Knight](https://github.com/businesscasualkesha) of Arm. The scope is activities that drive awareness of the work of this group and of the regulatory landscape in general. The SIG has been marshalling blog posts, upcoming conference schedule, as well as the CRA introductory course. The Awareness SIG minutes are kept in the [main working group minutes document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit). The group is working on a CRA glossary.

Awareness sig has setup a project board for monthly content calendar organization: https://github.com/orgs/ossf/projects/33

Activities and Publications:
* Tech Talk on OSPS Baseline and how it support CRA
* Tech Talk on SBOM Toools and the CRA
* Tech Talk on Risk Assessment
* Tech Talk on "What makes you commercial" in the CRA
* Tech Talk o the Brief Guide, as well as [Blog Post on Brief Guide](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/07/15/new-cyber-resilience-act-cra-brief-guide-for-oss-developers/)

## Standards SIG

The Standards work stream is progressing. Since joining the team, Madalin has taken over leadership of this SIG.

The SIG's mission has been to coodinate between stakeholders regarding engagement in Standards work related to cybersecurity policy. This is complicated by the fact that many of these standards organizations have a different approach to confidentiality than the OpenSSF. The discussion of this group have helped to guide the engagement of OpenSSF staff within some of these efforts.

The SIG produced a Standards Survey for OpenSSF members to determine what standards are highest priority. The results of this survey were discussed in our main working group [call on 7-21](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit?tab=t.0) and indicated high priority for certain vertical standards such as hypervisors, opratine systems and identity management systems. This info has helped to prioritize the work of this group. 

Minutes available here: [SIG Minutes Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XjE5VYdyIdH32T94ZQIj0Hf5btRiKG58z3jSInY77wA/view?tab=t.0).

## Questions/Issues for the TAC

None at this time.

## Additional Information



