# 2025 Q4 TAC Report for Global Cybersecurity Policy Working Group

## Overview

* GitHub repo: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/
* Minutes doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit
* Charter: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/blob/main/CHARTER.md

This group has been formed in January 2025, after the Linux Foundation workshop on "Stewards and Manufacturers" in Amsterdam in December 2024 and is based on the consensus output of that workshop. The scope of the group is to provide a forum for our members and the broader community to collaborate on Global Cybersecurity-related legislation, frameworks, and standards which facilitate conformance to regulatory requirements by open source projects and their consumers. We have been holding bi-weekly calls. We have 2 active SIGs - Awareness and Standards. The group is focusing most of its attention on the European Cyber Resilience Act (CRA) with some time put aside to monitor activities in other jurisdictions. We also have drafted a [liaisons list](https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/blob/main/governance/external-liaisons.md) which is a list of external organizations we feel we need to liaise with, with a special emphasis on the [Eclipse ORC working group](https://github.com/orcwg/), to minimize overlap.

In 2025, the group  produced deliverable documents, acted as an outreach vehicle, and also served as a venue to discuss and share information between community members regarding the regulatory landscape and its impacts on industry and the OSS ecosystem.

Last month, the group ran some workshop sessions at the LF Europe Roadshow event in Ghent and subsequent policy summit in Brussels to refine its scope and deliverables for the coming year.

We have two working group co-leads: [Daniel Appelquist | Samsung](https://github.com/torgo) and [Roman Zhukov | Red Hat](https://github.com/rozhukov). In October, [Mike Bursell | Confidential Compute Consortium](https://github.com/MikeCamel) stepped down as co-chair, after helping to organize and facilitate the workshop in Ghent. The group thanks Mike for all his work and contributions, and welcomes Roman as new co-chair.  [Megan Knight | Arm](https://github.com/businesscasualkesha) chairs the Awareness SIG. In addition, we have support from [Crob](https://github.com/SecurityCRob), [Jeff Diecks](https://github.com/GeauxJD) and [Madalin Neag](https://github.com/madalinnneag) from OpenSSF staff.

We also operate the "EU CRA Monthly Tech Talk", the agenda of which is managed by the Awareness SIG.

We have a regular schedule of calls for our Awareness and Standards SIGs and take minutes in our main minutes doc. Although we initially envisioned a tooling SIG, it turned out that mny of the activities proposed for this are actually being progressed in the ORBIT working group, so we maintain active discussion with ORBIT. Our SIGs report into the main working group call.  We have had well attended meetings this year. Our general working group call, besides being a place where SIGs report, also serves as a venue to work on general deliverables and to drive awareness with group members of related activities. 

Since our last report:

* The [Free LF Training on CRA](https://openssf.org/press-release/2025/04/29/openssf-launches-free-course-to-prepare-developers-for-the-eu-cyber-resilience-act/), which the group helped to shape, has had over 5657 enrollments. 

* We held sessions in Ghent and Brussels - see [OpenSSF Blog Post](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/11/17/recap-open-source-security-week-in-belgium-highlights-from-ghent-to-brussels/) for details.

* We collaborated with others in a successful [proposal for a FOSDEM dev room](https://lists.fosdem.org/pipermail/fosdem/2025q4/003697.html) covering "CRA in practice".

* We continued work on specifying a "compliance" file for OSS repos - that would include information about stewardship as well as additional info: https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/issues/69. It's already referenced as a "good practice" by the CRA Voluntary Security Attestation Project (Eclipse ORC WG)

* We have helped to shape work by OpenSSF staff on Stewardship recommendations for LF Projects, e.g. https://github.com/ossf/wg-globalcyberpolicy/pull/77.


## Awareness SIG

The awareness SIG is led by [Megan Knight](https://github.com/businesscasualkesha) of Arm. The scope is activities that drive awareness of the work of this group and of the regulatory landscape in general. The SIG has been marshalling blog posts, upcoming conference schedule, as well as the CRA introductory course. The Awareness SIG minutes are kept in the [main working group minutes document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit). The group is working on a CRA glossary.

Awareness SIG has setup a project board for monthly content calendar organization: https://github.com/orgs/ossf/projects/33

Activities and Publications:
* Tech Talk on OSPS Baseline and how it support CRA
* Tech Talk on SBOM Toools and the CRA
* Tech Talk on Risk Assessment
* Tech Talk on "What makes you commercial" in the CRA
* Tech Talk o the Brief Guide, as well as [Blog Post on Brief Guide](https://openssf.org/blog/2025/07/15/new-cyber-resilience-act-cra-brief-guide-for-oss-developers/)
* Many talks referencing Global Cyber Policy WG and encouraging contributions at events like OS Summits, KubeCons and many others around the world.
## Standards SIG

The Standards SIG is led by [Madalin Neag](https://github.com/madalinnneag). 

The SIG's mission has been to coordinate between stakeholders regarding engagement in Standards work related to cybersecurity policy. This is complicated by the fact that many of these standards organizations have a different approach to confidentiality than the OpenSSF. The discussions of this group have helped to guide the engagement of OpenSSF staff within some of these efforts.

The SIG produced a Standards Survey for OpenSSF members to determine what standards are highest priority. The results of this survey were discussed in our main working group [call on 7-21](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iAplSQheMgemdMnEw74uPj3oi_6rLLbFFXhg4svqIDo/edit?tab=t.0) and indicated high priority for certain vertical standards such as hypervisors, operating systems and identity management systems. This info has helped to prioritize the work of this group. 

Minutes available here: [SIG Minutes Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1XjE5VYdyIdH32T94ZQIj0Hf5btRiKG58z3jSInY77wA/view?tab=t.0).

## Questions/Issues for the TAC

None at this time.

## Additional Information


