# 2025 Q4 Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI)

## Overview

Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI) continues to work towards providing state of the art secure infrastructure for the GNU Toolchain and ancillary projects.

Work continues in CY25Q4 (December) as output from the CTI TAC and project developers:

 * [glibc SSDLC: Review git to gitolite transition and access policy - Volunteer to write a script?](https://inbox.sourceware.org/libc-alpha/c580762f-db94-4b05-9b00-30b128b35bbe@redhat.com/T/#u)
 * [Continued funding discussions for OPEX and CAPEX](https://inbox.sourceware.org/overseers/20251029171555.GB21228@redhat.com/)

The goal is to help the developers and volunteers understand the need for secure infrastructure, how to approach these tasks, and how to fund them.

## Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project

Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI) in 2025 Q4 continues move forward secure development practices and why we might carry out these activities and how they support the projects.

In order to engage the developers and discuss security and secure development practices it was decided that the CTI TAC would work with project developers on providing a set of guiding documents that defined a secure software development life-cycle (SSDLC) for the projects and begin working on the implementation.

Two documents were published in CY25Q2 to define the SSDLC for the GNU Toolchain and glibc as work output from the CTI TAC and project developers:

 * [GNU Toolchain SSDLC](https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/SSDLC)
 * [GNU C Library SSDLC](https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/SSDLC/Policy/glibc)

The goal of these documents is to help the developers and volunteers understand the need for secure infrastructure and the best frameworks to approach these tasks.

Work has continued on the following items:

 * glibc SSDLC: [Store all forms of code based on principle of least privilege (PS.1.1, page 9)](https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/SSDLC/Policy/glibc#Store_all_forms_of_code_based_on_principle_of_least_privilege_.28PS.1.1.2C_page_9.29).

Key insights are that 94 of 133 keys with write access would be moved to read-only access.

Work would be accelerated if infrastructure for glibc moved to CTI, and so the recommendation will be raised again with the community to move to CTI funded infrastructure (increased number of sponsors, and LF IT engaged to provide paid support for infrastructure).

### Purpose

The Core Toolchain Infrastructure (CTI) Project’s mission is to support the GNU Toolchain community with secure infrastructure and state of the art services required to support the community’s development efforts to be a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

The CTI project continues to move forward the goal of creating a long-term sustainable set of secure and state of the art services and infrastructure for the GNU Toolchain and related packages.

Some of the major goals include:

 * Secure and state of the art infrastructure.
 * Continuity planning for infrastructure, development, and governance.
 * Security policy planning.

### MVSR

Mission:
 * To support the GNU Toolchain community with secure infrastructure and state of the art services required to support the community’s development efforts to be a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

Vision:
 * A thriving ecosystem of software that can be developed with the GNU Toolchain as a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

Strategy:
 * Review, prioritize, and support key infrastructure requirements from the GNU Toolchain community in collaboration with project sponsors.

Roadmap:
 * Establish a baseline of secured services with support from project sponsors.

### Current Status

 * Working on SSDLC item PS.1.1 for glibc to show the value for developers.

### Up Next

 * Raising again the move to CTI funded infrastructure to accelerate infrastructure security improvements and broaden sponsorship.

### Questions/Issues for the TAC

None at this time.

## Additional Information

No additional information noted for CY25Q4.
