# 2026 Q1 Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI)

## Overview

Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI) continues to work towards providing state of the art secure infrastructure for the GNU Toolchain and ancillary projects.

In CY26Q1 (January) the work shifted from education to supporting the GNU C Library (one of 4 core GNU Toolchain projects) to migrate services to  CTI.

The project leadership and CTI TAC worked together to post the following to the developer mailing list:

 * [CTI - Making a decision for glibc.](https://inbox.sourceware.org/libc-alpha/287f1496-8f87-4ed3-a18b-3cb8c52c2ab3@redhat.com/)

The CTI TAC is working closely with developers to transition smoothly to the modern infrastructure for `git` and email. Once this transition is in progress we will continue to review other services and projects in the GNU Toolchain (gcc, binutils and gdb).

## Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project

Core Toolchain Infrastructure Project (CTI) in 2026 Q1 continues to move forward secure development practices, but now in direct support for the GNU C Library (glibc) as the first GNU Toolchain project to migrate to new CTI services.

In order to engage the developers and discuss the transition the CTI TAC is holding weekly Friday office hours for the migration across three timezones.

Next steps include:

 * Working with developers to review access controls.
 * Working with Linux Foundation IT to review the updated SOW for services.

### Purpose

The Core Toolchain Infrastructure (CTI) Project’s mission is to support the GNU Toolchain community with secure infrastructure and state of the art services required to support the community’s development efforts to be a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

The CTI project continues to move forward the goal of creating a long-term sustainable set of secure and state of the art services and infrastructure for the GNU Toolchain and related packages.

Some of the major goals include:

 * Secure and state of the art infrastructure.
 * Continuity planning for infrastructure, development, and governance.
 * Security policy planning.

### MVSR

Mission:
 * To support the GNU Toolchain community with secure infrastructure and state of the art services required to support the community’s development efforts to be a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

Vision:
 * A thriving ecosystem of software that can be developed with the GNU Toolchain as a trusted foundation in a secure supply chain.

Strategy:
 * Review, prioritize, and support key infrastructure requirements from the GNU Toolchain community in collaboration with project sponsors.

Roadmap:
 * Establish a baseline of secured services with support from project sponsors.

### Current Status

 * Working with the GNU C Library (glibc) project to migrate git and email to CTI services within CY26.
 * Reviewing Linux Foundation IT SOW for CY26 migration work.

### Up Next

 * Engaging sponsors in a conversation around CY27 funding and requirements.

### Questions/Issues for the TAC

None at this time.

## Additional Information

No additional information noted for CY26Q1.
